I put together this when that gives you
a real idea of what an elephant birds
egg was like they think they they tough
and it's one of the things I cherish
anyway some years ago this giant egg
sent me off on a new investigation a
film directors and television director
friend said why don't we make a program
entirely based on this on the EP on his
egg which if that meant going back to
Madagascar and suited me
it turned into a detective story trying
to find out what kind of creature the
elephant bird really was but most of all
I wanted to know exactly how old my egg
was here in the basement of the
archaeological department at Oxford
University there's a carbon dating
apparatus which can accurately PHY the
age of ancient objects natural and
man-made but I've been told that Thomas
hiam who took the sample from my egg has
got a result you took a tiny bit of this
I know very small amounts from back here
and tell me come on what's the answer
well our date suggests that this egg is
1,300 years old no yes yeah say it again
one 1,300 years old and that puts you at
what date about 700 600 to 700 AD and
you what did that surprise you um I
thought it was quite a lot younger than
I thought it would be actually oh and I
say that I did and I say that because I
checked back on all of the other
eggshell dates that we've dated from
Madagascar from the species and the
youngest date that we've ever got us is
about 900 AD so this in fact was one of
the last of the elephant
right I think within within 100 to 200
years perhaps perhaps yes ah the tick
that came out of this was one of the
last absolutely amazing
listen to this one this is a pigeon oh
this is a horse